Concrete is the most widely used construction material on earth, mainly due to its low cost, durability, availability, fire resistance and long service life. High-performance concrete (HPC) is a terminology used for concrete that conforms to a set of standards above those of the conventional concrete, not limited to strength. In addition to the basic ingredients used in conventional concrete, i.e., cement, water, coarse and fine aggregates, HPC incorporates supplementary materials such as fly ash, blast furnace slag and superplasticizer. Even though the recipe for HPC seems fairly simple with its components, tremendous amount of complexity is involved in selecting the exact proportions of the constituents in order to simulate the desired performance.  

Usually, compressive strength tests of concrete are conducted 7 to 28 days after pouring the concrete mix. Neglecting these tests might compromise on the quality control but the 28-days waiting period can delay the construction process. Thus, rapid and reliable prediction of concrete compressive strength is really important for quality control as well as predesign. It gives an option to do the essential modifications in the constituent proportions so as to avoid the circumstances where concrete does not attain the required design levels. It enables us to make economic use of raw materials and have fewer construction failures, thus reducing construction costs and loss of lives along with time. The early prediction of concrete compressive strength can also give us an idea about the time for concrete form removal and project scheduling.

The Abrams' water-cement ratio law (proposed in 1918) is considered as the most significant advancement in the field of concrete technology. It states that the strength of concrete is inversely proportional to the ratio of water to cement (w/c). It implies that as long as water to cement ratios of several comparable concrete mixes are same, their strengths will be same independent of the quantities of water and cement and even any other ingredients present in the mixture.

Several studies have independently shown that concrete strength is determined not only by w/c ratio but quantities of other ingredients as well. But the empirical equations used in codes and standards for estimation of concrete compressive strength are based on tests of concrete mixes without supplementary ingredients. Thus, validity of these relationships for concrete mixes with supplementary ingredients is questionable. It is really important to understand the relationship between composition of concrete and its strength to optimize the concrete mixture. 

This study aims at using various regression models to accurately predict the compressive strength of HPC at varying ages. Similar works in the past employ traditional linear regression and artificial neural networks and support vector machines (SVM), bagging regression trees (BRT) and multiple additive regression trees (MART). This study exploits regression techniques, namely multiple additive regression splines (MARS), random forests and gradient boosting.

The study will utilise the dataset in two different ways: one of them will consider water and cement as two independent input variables while the other method will consider water to cement ratio as an input variable and drop the features 'water' and 'cement'. The comparison between models obtained both the ways will be useful to analyse if the quantities of water and cement play a role in determining concrete compressive strength.
